Title: Turkish Lentil Salad with Sweet Peppers and Herbs

MAKES :4-6 servings
COOK TIME: 50 minutes
ACTIVE TIME PLUS COOLING plus cooling

Ingredients:
1 cup lentils du Puy (see headnote), rinsed and drained
Kosher salt and ground black pepper
1/4 cup extra-virgin olive oil
1 tablespoon pomegranate molasses
1 tablespoon lemon juice
1 teaspoon Aleppo pepper or 1 teaspoon sweet paprika plus ¼ teaspoon cayenne pepper
1 teaspoon ground sumac
3/4 teaspoon ground cumin
1/2 small red onion, thinly sliced
1 Fresno chili, stemmed, seeded and thinly sliced
1/2 cup drained roasted red peppers, chopped into ½-inch pieces
1/2 cup lightly packed fresh mint, roughly chopped
1/2 cup lightly packed fresh dill, roughly chopped

Step 1
In a large saucepan, combine the lentils, 5 cups water, 1 teaspoon salt and ½ teaspoon black pepper. Bring to a simmer over medium-high, then reduce to medium and simmer, uncovered and stirring occasionally, until tender but still hold their shape, about 25 minutes.

Step 2
Drain the lentils in a colander and shake to remove as much water as possible. Transfer to a large bowl. Immediately add the oil, pomegranate molasses, lemon juice, Aleppo pepper, sumac, cumin and ¼ teaspoon each salt and black pepper. Cool to room temperature, stirring once or twice. Add the onion, Fresno chili, roasted peppers, mint and dill; gently toss. Taste and season with salt and black pepper.

Simple yet layered, the dish pairs red onion and nubby mung beans with hot chilies, fresh herbs and tart lemon and sumac. To re-create the salad, we use French lentils du Puy, as they cook up with a texture akin to dried mung beans, which can be difficult to source. If you are able to find dried mung beans and would like to try them, use an equal amount but extend the cooking time to about 30 minutes. If convenient, cook, dress and cool the lentils. At that point, they can be covered and refrigerated up to two days. When ready to serve, toss in the remaining ingredients. The salad is great either chilled or at room temperature. 

Tip: Don’t allow the lentils to cool before dressing them. They better absorb seasonings when warm. However, make sure the dressed lentils are fully cooled before tossing in the onion, chili, roasted peppers and herbs so these ingredients retain their freshness.
